and Hezekiah sent to all Israel and
pewter and also wrote letters to ephraim
and manasseh that they should come to
the house of the Lord at Jerusalem to
keep the Passover to the Lord God of
Israel for the king and his leaders and
all the Assembly in Jerusalem had agreed
to keep the Passover in the second month
for they couldn't keep it at the regular
time because a sufficient number of
priests had not consecrated themselves
nor had the people gathered together at
Jerusalem and the matter pleased the
king and all the assembly so they
resolved to make a proclamation
throughout all Israel from Beersheba to
Dan that they should come to keep the
Passover to the Lord God of Israel at
Jerusalem since they had not done it for
a long time in the prescribed manner
then the runners went throughout all
Israel and Judah with the letters from
the king and his leaders and spoke
according to the command of the king
children of Israel return to the Lord
God of Abraham Isaac and Israel then he
will return to the remnant of you who
have escaped from the hand of the kings
of Assyria and do not be like your
fathers and your brethren who trespassed
against the Lord God of their fathers so
that he gave them up to desolation as
you see now do not be stiff-necked as
your fathers were but yield yourselves
to the Lord and enter his sanctuary
which he has sanctified forever and
serve the Lord your God that the
fierceness of his wrath may turn away
from you but if you return to the Lord
your brethren and your children will be
treated with compassion by those who
lead them captive so that they may come
back to this land for the Lord your God
is gracious and merciful and will not
turn his face from you if you return to
him
so the runners passed from city to city
through the country of ephraim and
manasseh as far as Zebulon but they
laughed at them and mocked them
nevertheless some from ashen Manasseh
and Zebulun humbled themselves and came
to Jerusalem also the hand of God was on
Judah to give them singleness of heart
to obey the command of the king and the
leaders at the word of the Lord
now many people a very great assembly
gathered at Jerusalem to keep the feast
of unleavened bread in the second month
they arose and took away the altars that
were in Jerusalem and they took away all
the incense altars and cast them into
the brook kidron then they slaughtered
the Passover lambs on the fourteenth day
of the second month the priests and the
Levites were ashamed and sanctified
themselves and brought the burnt
offerings to the house of the law they
stood in their place according to their
custom according to the law of Moses the
man of God the priest sprinkled the
blood received from the hand of the
Levites for there were many in the
Assembly who had not sanctified
themselves therefore the Levites had
charge of the slaughter of the Passover
lambs for everyone who was not clean to
sanctify them to the Lord for a
multitude of the people many from
Ephraim Manasseh Issachar and Zebulun
had not cleanse themselves yet they ate
the Passover contrary to what was
written but Hezekiah prayed for them
may the good Lord provide atonement for
everyone who prepares his heart to seek
God the Lord God of his father's though
he is not cleansed according to the
purification of the sanctuary and the
Lord listened to Hezekiah and healed the
people so the children of Israel who
were present at Jerusalem kept the feast
of unleavened bread seven days with
great gladness and the Levites and the
priests praised the Lord day by day
singing to the Lord
accompanied by loud instruments and
Hezekiah gave encouragement to all the
Levites who taught the good knowledge of
the Lord and they ate throughout the
feast seven days offering peace
offerings and making confession to the
Lord God of their fathers then the whole
assembly agreed to keep the feast
another seven days and they kept it
another seven days with gladness for
Hezekiah king of Judah gave to the
assembly a thousand Bulls and seven
thousand sheep and the leaders gave to
the assembly a thousand Bulls and ten
thousand sheep and a great number of
priests sanctified themselves the whole
Assembly of Judah rejoiced also the
priests and Levites all the assembly
that came from Israel the sojourners who
came from the land of Israel and those
who dwelt in Judah so there was great
joy in Jerusalem for since the time of
Solomon the son of David king of Israel
there had been nothing like this in
Jerusalem then the priests the Levites
arose and blessed the people and their
voice was heard and their prayer came up
to his holy dwelling place to heaven
[Music]
you